# Welcome 🙋‍♂️ to ExtJS 📗

### [🔙 Back To Main Readme](../../readme.md) 👈

### [🔙 Back To Front-end](../../readme/front-end.md) 👈

## Introduction

- Sencha Ext JS is a JavaScript framework for building interactive web applications using techniques such as Ajax, DHTML and DOM scripting.

## Sencha Structure

This folder referes to generated app folder

This folder is primarily a container for the top-level pieces of the application.
While you can remove some files and folders that this application does not use,
be sure to read below before deciding what can be deleted and what needs to be
kept in source control.

The following files are all needed to build and load the application.

- `"app.json"` - The application descriptor which controls how the application is
  built and loaded.
- `"app.js"` - The file that launches the application. This is primarily used to
  launch an instance of the `MyApp.Application` class.
- `"index.html"` - The default web page for this application. This can be customized
  in `"app.json"`.
- `"build.xml"` - The entry point for Sencha Cmd to access the generated build
  script. This file is a place where you can hook into these processes and tune
  them. See the comments in that file for more information.

These files can be ignored from source control as they are regenerated by the build
process.

- `"build"` - This folder contain the output of the build. The generated CSS file,
  consolidated resources and concatenated JavaScript file are all stored in this
  folder.
- `"bootstrap.*"` - These files are generated by the build and watch commands to
  enable the application to load in "development mode".

## Basic Application Structure

Applications that target a single toolkit will have the following structure.

    app/                # Contains JavaScript and Theme code
        model/          # Data model classes
        view/           # Views as well as ViewModels and ViewControllers
        store/          # Data stores
        controller/     # Global / application-level controllers

    overrides/          # JavaScript code that is automatically required

    resources/          # Assets such as images, fonts, etc.

### app/

This folder contains JavaScript (.js files) and styling (.scss files) common
for all builds of the application.

#### app/controller/

This folder contains the application's global controllers. ViewControllers are located
alongside their respective view class in `"./view"`. These controllers are used for routing
and other activities that span all views.

#### app/model/

This folder contains the application's (data) Model classes.

#### app/view/

This folder contains the views as well as ViewModels and ViewControllers depending on the
application's architecture. Pure MVC applications may not have ViewModels, for example. For
MVCVM applications or MVC applications that use ViewControllers, the following directory
structure is recommended:

    app/view/
        foo/                    # Some meaningful grouping of one or more views
            Foo.js              # The view class
            Foo.scss            # The view class styling
            FooController.js    # The controller for Foo (a ViewController)
            FooModel.js         # The ViewModel for Foo

This structure helps keep these closely related classes together and easily identifiable in
most tabbed IDE's or text editors.

#### app/store/

This folder contains any number of store instances or types that can then be reused in the
application.

## Overrides

The contents of "overrides" folders are automatically required and included in
builds. These should not be explicitly mentioned in "requires" or "uses" in code.
This area is intended for overrides like these:

    Ext.define('Sencha.pg.overrides.foo.Bar', {
        override: 'Ext.foo.Bar',
        ...
    });

Such overrides, while automatically required, will only be included if their target
class ("Ext.foo.Bar" in this case) is also required. This simplifies applying
patches or extensions to other classes.

## Universal Applications

In a Universal Application, the basic application structure above is retained but
only holds code, resources, etc. pieces that are used in both classic and modern
build profiles. The following additional directories are used to isolate code and
other files that are toolkit-specific:

    classic/                # Content specific to the classic toolkit
        src/
            model/          # Data model classes
            view/           # Views as well as ViewModels and ViewControllers
            store/          # Data stores
            controller/     # Global / application-level controllers

        overrides/          # JavaScript code that is automatically required

        resources/          # Assets such as images, fonts, etc.

    modern/                 # Content specific to the modern toolkit
        src/
            model/          # Data model classes
            view/           # Views as well as ViewModels and ViewControllers
            store/          # Data stores
            controller/     # Global / application-level controllers

        overrides/          # JavaScript code that is automatically required

        resources/          # Assets such as images, fonts, etc.

## General tips

- You can host the whole sencha folder to localhost like tomcat or xamp and be able to access the examples locally.
- To make sure that sencha cmd is working you can open the cmd and write `sencha` it should gives you the version
- ` sencha -sdk /path/to/sdk generate app MyApp /path/to/myapp`
- When writing `sencha` it will give extra info about commands, if you write `sencha app` it will also give you help about what you can do
- `sencha help generate app`
- `sencha generate app -ext -classic MyAppName ./MyAppPath`
- `sencha generate app -ext -modern MyAppName ./MyAppPath`
- `sencha -sdk 'D:\sencha source\ext-7.7.0' generate app -classic ExtPG ./ExtPG`
- Go to chrome setting in F12 and select disable cash in devtools check point
- docs.sencha.com
- When you override somthing make sure you call `this.callParent(arguments);`

# Sencha Ext JS plugin for vs code

- Code completion (IntelliSense, ctrl+space)
- Go to Definition/Peek Definition (cmd+click on MacOS, ctrl+click on Windows, or F12 on either)
- Go to Documentation (F1)
- Create new Ext JS workspaces, apps, and packages.
- Adds Ext JS snippets, which can be customized or added to.
- Run sencha app watch within Visual Studio Code.

# Notes

- `sencha app build` to build the app

# App

- MVC inside app folder there is folder for model, view and controller.
- build folder is when we build app
- resource folder is for app resources like images.
- check index.html file first main file.
- check the App.js file second main file.
- check the Application.js inside app folder.

# Form

- check form submission different mode, givien url, onSubmit, standarSubmit, etc.
